# What makes a metal song progressive?

This repository contains the work I have done for a personal project of mine where I attempted to answer the following question: **What makes a metal song progressive?** To achieve my goal, I first collected information about the musical features of thousands of generic and progressive metal songs from the *Spotify* API using the **awesome** [Spotifyr](https://github.com/charlie86/spotifyr) package in R from [Daniel Antal](https://github.com/antaldaniel). You can find the script I used to collect this information as well as the datasets created for generic and progressive songs in the `data` folder.

After gathering all these data, I applied exploratory data analysis techniques to better understand what distinguishes a progressive metal song from a generic metal song. Next, I applied logistic regression and random-forest models to determine if one could use the music features available via the *Spotify* API to predict the category of songs (progressive or generic).

This little case study was my first attempt at applying these classification techniques and I was surprised to find that it worked quite well. Spoiler alert: it seems we can make reliable predictions with just a few musical features. If you're interested in the full story, feel free to check out my (first!) blog [post](post) where you can find a step-by-step description of the case study.

Concerning the structure of the repository, the `data` folder contains the datasets and the R script used to create them (be aware that if you use the script, it takes some time to collect all the data). The `functions` folder contains an adapted version of a function from the `spotifyr` package that I creaed to collect some specific features provided by the *Spotify* API. Finally, the `prog_analysis.Rmd` file contains all the steps of the project (data collection, EDA and modeling), as described in my blog post.

For more information on the procedure for collecting the data and running the analysis, please see my blog [post](post) or refer to the comments in the individual scripts. Feel free to contact me if you can't find the information you are looking for.